boom this word isn't nearly enough to
illustrate the explosion
the most powerful one you've ever seen
and what's most important
it's a lake that's just blown up hey all
you wanted to do
is light up some fireworks in this
picturesque place but you must have
totally missed the danger strictly no
fire warning sign along the way
and now the wall of fuming water is
quickly closing in on you
but first let's rewind to the beginning
of the whole thing
you're in alberta canada and have just
arrived to abraham lake for a hike of
your life
the lake is frozen and the view is
awesome
those bubbles under the eyes look like
hundreds of frozen jellyfish
in reality they're made of methane a
toxic
and highly flammable gas produced by
bacteria living on the bottom of the
lake
that's why the sign is there if you so
much as light a match on this ice
it might set the whole thing on fire
luckily
you've taken note of it on the way here
and put away the fireworks you wanted to
light up
another place another time another lake
this one's not frozen in fact it
probably hasn't seen a winter since the
last ice age
we're in cameroon now and the place is
called lake nios
it looks peaceful but make no mistake
its orange brown
waters hide a deadly secret the lake
rests atop a highly volatile area
and the fissures in its bottom let out
massive amounts of carbon dioxide
when the ground shifts this gas spills
out of the lake and flows miles around
it
the concentrations are so high that one
breath of it would make you faint
and you'd have zero chance of waking up
eh you get the picture
but the most sinister thing about it is
that the co2 doesn't have a smell
or color so you wouldn't even see it
coming
local authorities have set up a system
of pipes that drains the gas from the
lake
making it relatively safe for people and
animals in the vicinity
and another toxic lake kivu on the
border of congo and rwanda
has even been made to provide energy for
millions of people
thanks to its gases while we're in
africa
the danakil depression in ethiopia is
also worth a
blood curdling visit dubbed the hottest
place on earth
it sure lives up to its name the ravine
is peppered with extremely hot springs
toxic acid ponds and active volcanoes
the landscape is surreal to say the
least and is probably the only inhabited
place on earth
where no life can exist the afar people
live here
all year round and gather salt around
the springs for trade
while scientists couldn't find any
evidence of microbial life in those
humans are notorious for settling in
places most would gladly avoid
take mount tambora in indonesia
thousands of people have been living on
and around its slopes for centuries
until the fateful day in 1815.
tambora is a volcano and that year it
decided to erupt
resulting in a blast that obliterated
everything on the island
and was heard almost a thousand miles
away it spewed out so much volcanic ash
that it fell in sheets on the
surrounding aisles and caused a year
without a summer
in the whole northern hemisphere it was
the most powerful eruption in the last
ten
thousand years and mount tambora became
as much as five thousand feet lower
after it
but back to our time there's an island
you won't be allowed to visit
but i bet you wouldn't want to anyway
the snake island in brazil
is home to thousands of snakes as its
name implies
the moment you step on its soil you're
in grave danger of being bitten by a
viper
the island is also the only place you
can meet a golden lancehead viper
the encounter of a lifetime literally
this place is so dangerous
that brazil has banned tourists and any
other visitors from it
unconditionally okay gotta go
now get your warmest clothes on and
don't forget a fur
facemask we're going to omayak in russia
it's a small town in the far north
that's often called the coldest place on
the planet where people still live
the only place with a lower average
temperature is antarctica
and that's saying something in the
winter if you so much as forget to put
on a sweater
another sweater another sweater and a
fur coat you'll get frozen to the bone
in mere seconds
temperatures here drop to the chilling
minus 96 degrees
fahrenheit fresh fruit turns to chunks
of ice in minutes
and becomes so hard you could drive
nails into wood with an
apple here now before you freeze in
place let's go somewhere
no boat will take you the skeleton coast
in namibia
no really you can only drive or fly in
here because boats and ships won't go
near the place the waters are
treacherous sudden gales toss vessels
around
and sharp rocks hiding underwater are
all too happy to ram into their hulls
the coast itself stretches for hundreds
of miles and is divided into southern
and northern
parts visitors on all terrain vehicles
are allowed freely into the southern
part
but only about 800 people a year can get
to the northern one
and only with guided tours people are
known to have been lost in this desert
forever
and it's a daunting place to go it got
its name from numerous animal carcasses
found here
still about 50 000 indigenous people
managed to survive in this place along
with adapted animals
lizards hyenas and even elephants
now you'd expect a living destruction
machine anywhere but the heart of europe
naples one of the most famous cities in
italy is built on top of an active
super volcano in 2018
scientists noticed this monster of a
mountain was building up magma in its
depths
they say it isn't likely to erupt in the
near future
but there's a smaller yet no less
dangerous volcano just a few miles off
the infamous vesuvius you might remember
it for the
immolation of the roman city of pompeii
about 2
000 years ago you might but i wasn't
around then
this one has been active for a long
while and both citizens and guests of
naples
put their lives at stake every single
day they spend in town
but hey while you're there try the pizza
northeast of france is also an
unwelcoming place
a chain of areas has been dubbed zone
rouge or
red zone and declared off-limits since
the 1920s
if by some wild chance you find yourself
in one of these places
you'll only see wilted plants and
scorched earth
so much in contrast with the lush
landscapes of the rest of the country
the soil and air is so polluted here
that people are prohibited to enter for
fear of choking
and in any case nothing can live in the
red zone at the time
there's an inhabited island in japan
that was once closed for air travel for
eight years
miyaki jama is basically a volcano on
whose slopes people live
it has been erupting roughly every 20
years and the latest eruption was in
2000.
the volcano doesn't normally spill lava
but instead it throws out enormous
clouds of toxic sulfuric gases
hey don't forget your mask speaking of
which
at the peak of its activity residents of
the island had to wear gas masks at all
times
and even years after the eruption they
took those masks
with them just in case hey i can relate
not far from where we've just been in
kamchatka region of russia
there's an incredibly beautiful valley
in which you don't want to stay for too
long
it's ominously called the valley of
death and it sits at the base of another
active volcano
when the mountain lets out its fumes
spoiler quite often
the toxic gases heavier than air go down
its slopes and
right into the valley small critters
have no chance of survival breathing
this stuff
and even larger animals and humans will
have trouble getting out
unscathed another deadly vacation
destination
is salt stroman strait in norway it
looks serene and beautiful
and you can almost feel it inviting you
to take a dip
and bathe in its waters don't do that
though
every six hours the calm straight turns
into a roaring mass
dotted with huge and powerful whirlpools
it's all because of a tidal current
between two fjords the strait is
connecting
here on a high tide the rush of water is
too
massive for the narrow stream making it
a deadly trap for both swimmers and
boats
now over in bolivia there's a 45 miles
long road
that only the bravest dare to traverse
yungas road goes along the side of a
mountain range
and is a major attraction for cyclists
craving for a thrill
a new passage has been built that
bypasses the most dangerous parts of the
route
but the original road was very narrow
with the abyss and no
guard rails to speak of on one side and
a steep slope on the other
frequent landslides fog and rains made
cycling here
extremely dangerous and unpredictable
which of course
never stopped adrenaline seekers from
all over the world
to come here for a bike ride like no
other
finally if you like hot springs you
might also
love a visit to boiling lake in dominica
located in a national park it's a cavity
filled with constantly boiling water
from the rivers in the vicinity
it's kept hot by the extremely hot
springs of toxic gas
and the fumes above the surface are also
toxic
the lake attracts tourists but getting
too close to it might prove
really dangerous it's known to burst
flooding the surrounding area with
clouds of gas